Hello World tutorial for ARSSEscripting by Shoozza

ARSSEscripting is similar but not identical to writing program in pascal. So if you understand pascal you will have no real problems to write simple ARSSE scripts.

Note that ARSSEscripting is very limited. For example you cannot save valued in variables and you have only access to a few predefined ones.

This guide explains how to make a simple hello world script which gets triggerd when a player says !run ingame

First we need to create a script file in the script folder (the folder inside the ARSSE folder)
Let's name it OnPlayerSpeak.txt

(the file might already exist for you just leave it like it is and add our lines to the beginning or the end)

After that open ARSSE choose the servertab you what that script so be running on and click on the configuration button.
The configuartion window pops up and you choose the Events tab.
There you need to check the OnPlayerSpeak checkbox.
And now you need to add the scripting file that will be executed when a player speaks.
To do that just doubleclick in the scriptfile column and write "script\OnPlayerSpeak.txt" (without the ") and press enter.
Now leftclick on that text and choose "Edit script".
(Before you do that you may notice that the bottom box shows the Parameters you can use in that event for that script file)
How you are in the script editor.
Add following lines to the top:

# This is a hello world script
if $MESSAGE = !run
 /say Hello World!
endif

And click on the Save Script button

In the first line you see a comment. Comments start with #.
Everything after the # is ignored and will not be executed.
Make sure to comment your scripts so that you easily know what they do when you look at them after a few months again.
The second line "if $MESSAGE = !run" checks if the player chat message is "!run"
if that is the case it executes everything till it reaches the endif
the "/say Hello World!" text just sends an admin message to the servers.
You can basically use any commands the server or ARSSE supports.

Now you need to click the OK button to apply the changes.


To test the script simply join the server and press t and write "!run" (without the ").

END OF FILE

